README.md, before:

# http-digest

## Presentation

Small implementation of HTTP Digest Authentication (client-side) in Lua
that mimics the API of LuaSocket.

Only supports auth/MD5, no reuse of client nonce, pull requests welcome.

## Dependencies

- luasocket
- md5
- copas (only for asynchronous operation)

Tests require [cwtest](https://github.com/catwell/cwtest), a JSON parser
and the availability of [httpbin.org](http://httpbin.org). Asynchronous tests require [copas](https://keplerproject.github.io/copas).

## Usage

See [LuaSocket](http://w3.impa.br/~diego/software/luasocket/http.html)'s
`http.request`. Credentials must be contained in the URL. Both the simple and
generic interface are supported. 
Here is an example with the simple interface. The request blocks unit the response is received.

```lua
local http_digest = require "http-digest"
local url = "http://user:passwd@httpbin.org/digest-auth/auth/user/passwd"
local b, c, h = http_digest.request(url)
```

Here is an example using asynchronous requests using [copas](https://keplerproject.github.io/copas) with a user supplied handler function. The handler receives the body of the response, the HTTP status code and the response header. This form is intended to be used in cases, where http-digest.lua is not used within another module providing a response header, for instance [luasoap](https://tomasguisasola.github.io/luasoap).

```lua
local http_digest = require "http-digest"
local url = "http://httpbin.org/digest-auth/auth/user/passwd"
local b, c, h = http_digest.request{
  url = url,
  user = USER,
  password = PASSWORD,
  handler = function(b, c, h)
    print("Request returned with status code " .. c)
  end
)
```

This third example also uses asynchronoous requests provided by copas. No handler funciton is supplied to the request. A boolean value for handler indicates that the request shall be asynchronous. This form is intended for usage in a higher layer module. The request yields execution while waiting for response data and is resumed by copas when new data arrives.

```lua
local http_digest = require "http-digest"
local url = "http://httpbin.org/digest-auth/auth/user/passwd"
local b, c, h = http_digest.request{
  url = url,
  user = USER,
  password = PASSWORD,
  handler = true 
)
```

Finally the same use case but with the simple interface. A second boolean parameter instructs http-digest to operate asynchronously.

```lua
local http_digest = require "http-digest"
local url = "http://user:passwd@httpbin.org/digest-auth/auth/user/passwd"
local b, c, h = http_digest.request(url, true)
```

See the tests for more.

## Note

If you get this error when running the tests, update LuaSocket:

    variable 'PROXY' is not declared

You may need to use the SCM version to run them (see
[this issue](https://github.com/diegonehab/luasocket/issues/110)).

This only impacts the tests, the code itself works with older versions as well.

## Copyright

- Copyright (c) 2012-2013 Moodstocks SAS
- Copyright (c) 2014-2018 Pierre Chapuis

Commit message:

added 'opqque' parameter as transaction id for asynchronous requests.

README.md, after:

# http-digest

## Presentation

Small implementation of HTTP Digest Authentication (client-side) in Lua
that mimics the API of LuaSocket.

Only supports auth/MD5, no reuse of client nonce, pull requests welcome.

## Dependencies

- luasocket
- md5
- copas (only for asynchronous operation)

Tests require [cwtest](https://github.com/catwell/cwtest), a JSON parser
and the availability of [httpbin.org](http://httpbin.org). Asynchronous tests require [copas](https://keplerproject.github.io/copas).

## Usage

See [LuaSocket](http://w3.impa.br/~diego/software/luasocket/http.html)'s
`http.request`. Credentials must be contained in the URL. Both the simple and
generic interface are supported. 
Here is an example with the simple interface. The request blocks unit the response is received.

```lua
local http_digest = require "http-digest"
local url = "http://user:passwd@httpbin.org/digest-auth/auth/user/passwd"
local b, c, h = http_digest.request(url)
```

Here is an example using asynchronous requests using [copas](https://keplerproject.github.io/copas) with a user supplied handler function. The handler receives the body of the response, the HTTP status code, the response header and an opaque user value given at request time allowing to associate the asynchronous response with the request. This form is intended to be used in cases, where http-digest.lua is not used within another module providing a response header, for instance [luasoap](https://tomasguisasola.github.io/luasoap).

```lua
local http_digest = require "http-digest"
local url = "http://httpbin.org/digest-auth/auth/user/passwd"
local b, c, h = http_digest.request{
  url = url,
  user = USER,
  password = PASSWORD,
  opaque = SOME_USER_VALUE,
  handler = function(b, c, h, opaque)
    print("Request returned with status code " .. c)
  end
)
```

This third example also uses asynchronoous requests provided by copas. No handler funciton is supplied to the request. A boolean value for handler indicates that the request shall be asynchronous. This form is intended for usage in a higher layer module. The request yields execution while waiting for response data and is resumed by copas when new data arrives.

```lua
local http_digest = require "http-digest"
local url = "http://httpbin.org/digest-auth/auth/user/passwd"
local b, c, h = http_digest.request{
  url = url,
  user = USER,
  password = PASSWORD,
  opaque = SOME_USER_VALUE,
  handler = true 
)
```

Finally the same use case but with the simple interface. A second boolean parameter instructs http-digest to operate asynchronously. The opaque transaction id is given as extra paremter to the request.

```lua
local http_digest = require "http-digest"
local url = "http://user:passwd@httpbin.org/digest-auth/auth/user/passwd"
local b, c, h, opaque = http_digest.request(url, true, SOME_USER_VALUE)
```

See the tests for more.

## Note

If you get this error when running the tests, update LuaSocket:

    variable 'PROXY' is not declared

You may need to use the SCM version to run them (see
[this issue](https://github.com/diegonehab/luasocket/issues/110)).

This only impacts the tests, the code itself works with older versions as well.

## Copyright

- Copyright (c) 2012-2013 Moodstocks SAS
- Copyright (c) 2014-2018 Pierre Chapuis
